README.md, before:

# Go VShard Router

<img align="right" width="159px" src="docs/logo.png">

[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router/graph/badge.svg?token=WLRWE97IT1)](https://codecov.io/gh/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router)
[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router)

Translations:
- [Русский](https://github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router/blob/main/README_ru.md)


go-vshard-router is a library for sending requests to a sharded tarantool cluster directly,
without using tarantool-router. go-vshard-router takes a new approach to creating your cluster

Old cluster schema
```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph Tarantool Database Cluster
        subgraph Replicaset 1
            Master_001_1
            Replica_001_2
        end

    end

ROUTER1["Tarantool vshard-router 1_1"] --> Master_001_1
ROUTER2["Tarantool vshard-router 1_2"] --> Master_001_1
ROUTER3["Tarantool vshard-router 1_3"] --> Master_001_1
ROUTER1["Tarantool vshard-router 1_1"] --> Replica_001_2
ROUTER2["Tarantool vshard-router 1_2"] --> Replica_001_2
ROUTER3["Tarantool vshard-router 1_3"] --> Replica_001_2

GO["Golang service"]
GO --> ROUTER1
GO --> ROUTER2
GO --> ROUTER3
```
New cluster schema
```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph Application Host
        Golang-Service
    end

    Golang-Service --> |iproto| MASTER1
    Golang-Service --> |iproto| REPLICA1
    
    MASTER1["Master 001_1"]
    REPLICA1["Replica 001_2"]
    
    subgraph Tarantool Database Cluster
        subgraph Replicaset 1
            MASTER1
            REPLICA1
        end
    end

    ROUTER1["Tarantool vshard-router(As contorol plane)"]
    ROUTER1 --> MASTER1
    ROUTER1 --> REPLICA1
```
# Getting started
### Prerequisites

- **[Go](https://go.dev/)**: any one of the **two latest major** [releases](https://go.dev/doc/devel/release) (we test it with these).

### Getting Go-Vshard-Router
With [Go module](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/Modules) support, simply add the following import

```
import "github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router"
```
to your code, and then `go [build|run|test]` will automatically fetch the necessary dependencies.

Otherwise, run the following Go command to install the `go-vshard-router` package:

```sh
$ go get -u github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router
```

### Running Go-Vshard-Router

First you need to import Go-Vshard-Router package for using Go-Vshard-Router

```go
package main

import (
  "context"
  "fmt"
  "strconv"
  "time"

  vshardrouter "github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router"
  "github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router/providers/static"

  "github.com/google/uuid"
  "github.com/tarantool/go-tarantool/v2"
  "github.com/tarantool/go-tarantool/v2/pool"
)

func main() {
  ctx := context.Background()

  directRouter, err := vshardrouter.NewRouter(ctx, vshardrouter.Config{
    DiscoveryTimeout: time.Minute,
    DiscoveryMode:    vshardrouter.DiscoveryModeOn,
    TopologyProvider: static.NewProvider(map[vshardrouter.ReplicasetInfo][]vshardrouter.InstanceInfo{
      vshardrouter.ReplicasetInfo{
        Name: "replcaset_1",
        UUID: uuid.New(),
      }: {
        {
          Addr: "127.0.0.1:1001",
          UUID: uuid.New(),
        },
        {
          Addr: "127.0.0.1:1002",
          UUID: uuid.New(),
        },
      },
      vshardrouter.ReplicasetInfo{
        Name: "replcaset_2",
        UUID: uuid.New(),
      }: {
        {
          Addr: "127.0.0.1:2001",
          UUID: uuid.New(),
        },
        {
          Addr: "127.0.0.1:2002",
          UUID: uuid.New(),
        },
      },
    }),
    TotalBucketCount: 128000,
    PoolOpts: tarantool.Opts{
      Timeout: time.Second,
    },
  })
  if err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }

  user := struct {
    ID uint64
  }{
    ID: 123,
  }

  bucketID := vshardrouter.BucketIDStrCRC32(strconv.FormatUint(user.ID, 10), directRouter.RouterBucketCount())

  interfaceResult, getTyped, err := directRouter.RouterCallImpl(
    ctx,
    bucketID,
    vshardrouter.CallOpts{VshardMode: vshardrouter.ReadMode, PoolMode: pool.PreferRO, Timeout: time.Second * 2},
    "storage.api.get_user_info",
    []interface{}{&struct {
      BucketID uint64                 `msgpack:"bucket_id" json:"bucket_id,omitempty"`
      Body     map[string]interface{} `msgpack:"body"`
    }{
      BucketID: bucketID,
      Body: map[string]interface{}{
        "user_id": "123456",
      },
    }},
  )

  info := &struct {
    BirthDay int
  }{}

  err = getTyped(&[]interface{}{info})
  if err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }

  fmt.Printf("interface result: %v", interfaceResult)
  fmt.Printf("get typed result: %v", info)
}
```

## Benchmarks
Topology: 
- 4 replicasets (x2 instances per rs)
- 4 tarantool proxy
- 1 golang service
### [K6](https://github.com/grafana/k6)

constant VUes scenario:
at a load close to production

```select```
- go-vshard-router: uncritically worse latency, but 3 times more rps
  ![Image alt](docs/direct.png)
- tarantool-router: (80% cpu, heavy rps kills proxy at 100% cpu) 
  ![Image alt](docs/not-direct.png)

Commit message:

add example service for go-vshard-router with tarantool example from origin vshard lib (#3)
* init example app

* fix gitignore

* ready to work

* rm test real

* fix readme

* add make enter storage and router

* start makefile for go service

* fix go mod for example

* add make run for customer example

* use local library for example

* rm lock and add more information in log

* add fix

* fix multiple result of tarantool response #2

* small changes

* init topology provider logic

* fix topology provider

* update tags

* update vhsard to 0.1.26

* fix invalid bucket per rs

* enable raft

* add readme and how much discovered

* init swagger

* add 1 more instance for rs1

* fix go service config

* add ru doc

* fix ru doc

* revert to master

* add to main doc example service

---------

Co-authored-by: maxim-konovalov <maksim.konovalov@vk.team>

README.md, after:

# Go VShard Router

<img align="right" width="159px" src="docs/logo.png">

[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router/graph/badge.svg?token=WLRWE97IT1)](https://codecov.io/gh/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router)
[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router)

Translations:
- [Русский](https://github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router/blob/main/README_ru.md)


go-vshard-router is a library for sending requests to a sharded tarantool cluster directly,
without using tarantool-router. go-vshard-router takes a new approach to creating your cluster

Old cluster schema
```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph Tarantool Database Cluster
        subgraph Replicaset 1
            Master_001_1
            Replica_001_2
        end

    end

ROUTER1["Tarantool vshard-router 1_1"] --> Master_001_1
ROUTER2["Tarantool vshard-router 1_2"] --> Master_001_1
ROUTER3["Tarantool vshard-router 1_3"] --> Master_001_1
ROUTER1["Tarantool vshard-router 1_1"] --> Replica_001_2
ROUTER2["Tarantool vshard-router 1_2"] --> Replica_001_2
ROUTER3["Tarantool vshard-router 1_3"] --> Replica_001_2

GO["Golang service"]
GO --> ROUTER1
GO --> ROUTER2
GO --> ROUTER3
```
New cluster schema
```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph Application Host
        Golang-Service
    end

    Golang-Service --> |iproto| MASTER1
    Golang-Service --> |iproto| REPLICA1
    
    MASTER1["Master 001_1"]
    REPLICA1["Replica 001_2"]
    
    subgraph Tarantool Database Cluster
        subgraph Replicaset 1
            MASTER1
            REPLICA1
        end
    end

    ROUTER1["Tarantool vshard-router(As contorol plane)"]
    ROUTER1 --> MASTER1
    ROUTER1 --> REPLICA1
```
# Getting started
### Prerequisites

- **[Go](https://go.dev/)**: any one of the **two latest major** [releases](https://go.dev/doc/devel/release) (we test it with these).

### Getting Go-Vshard-Router
With [Go module](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/Modules) support, simply add the following import

```
import "github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router"
```
to your code, and then `go [build|run|test]` will automatically fetch the necessary dependencies.

Otherwise, run the following Go command to install the `go-vshard-router` package:

```sh
$ go get -u github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router
```

### Running Go-Vshard-Router

First you need to import Go-Vshard-Router package for using Go-Vshard-Router

```go
package main

import (
  "context"
  "fmt"
  "strconv"
  "time"

  vshardrouter "github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router"
  "github.com/KaymeKaydex/go-vshard-router/providers/static"

  "github.com/google/uuid"
  "github.com/tarantool/go-tarantool/v2"
  "github.com/tarantool/go-tarantool/v2/pool"
)

func main() {
  ctx := context.Background()

  directRouter, err := vshardrouter.NewRouter(ctx, vshardrouter.Config{
    DiscoveryTimeout: time.Minute,
    DiscoveryMode:    vshardrouter.DiscoveryModeOn,
    TopologyProvider: static.NewProvider(map[vshardrouter.ReplicasetInfo][]vshardrouter.InstanceInfo{
      vshardrouter.ReplicasetInfo{
        Name: "replcaset_1",
        UUID: uuid.New(),
      }: {
        {
          Addr: "127.0.0.1:1001",
          UUID: uuid.New(),
        },
        {
          Addr: "127.0.0.1:1002",
          UUID: uuid.New(),
        },
      },
      vshardrouter.ReplicasetInfo{
        Name: "replcaset_2",
        UUID: uuid.New(),
      }: {
        {
          Addr: "127.0.0.1:2001",
          UUID: uuid.New(),
        },
        {
          Addr: "127.0.0.1:2002",
          UUID: uuid.New(),
        },
      },
    }),
    TotalBucketCount: 128000,
    PoolOpts: tarantool.Opts{
      Timeout: time.Second,
    },
  })
  if err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }

  user := struct {
    ID uint64
  }{
    ID: 123,
  }

  bucketID := vshardrouter.BucketIDStrCRC32(strconv.FormatUint(user.ID, 10), directRouter.RouterBucketCount())

  interfaceResult, getTyped, err := directRouter.RouterCallImpl(
    ctx,
    bucketID,
    vshardrouter.CallOpts{VshardMode: vshardrouter.ReadMode, PoolMode: pool.PreferRO, Timeout: time.Second * 2},
    "storage.api.get_user_info",
    []interface{}{&struct {
      BucketID uint64                 `msgpack:"bucket_id" json:"bucket_id,omitempty"`
      Body     map[string]interface{} `msgpack:"body"`
    }{
      BucketID: bucketID,
      Body: map[string]interface{}{
        "user_id": "123456",
      },
    }},
  )

  info := &struct {
    BirthDay int
  }{}

  err = getTyped(&[]interface{}{info})
  if err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }

  fmt.Printf("interface result: %v", interfaceResult)
  fmt.Printf("get typed result: %v", info)
}
```
### Learn more examples
#### [Customer service](examples/customer/README.md)
Service with go-vshard-router on top of the tarantool example from the original vshard library using raft

## Benchmarks
Topology: 
- 4 replicasets (x2 instances per rs)
- 4 tarantool proxy
- 1 golang service
### [K6](https://github.com/grafana/k6)

constant VUes scenario:
at a load close to production

```select```
- go-vshard-router: uncritically worse latency, but 3 times more rps
  ![Image alt](docs/direct.png)
- tarantool-router: (80% cpu, heavy rps kills proxy at 100% cpu) 
  ![Image alt](docs/not-direct.png)
